Now let's turn our attention to Encrypting File System, or EFS.
Now EFS is fundamentally different from BitLocker.
BitLocker is used if you need volume-level encryption,
whole-disk encryption, in other words.
EFS is file, or resource-level encryption.
So the use case here is,
on your workstation you may interact with very sensitive
documents that contain very proprietary information,
let's say,
and you want to make sure that if someone who shouldn't
get access to the files somehow does, and they try to email them off-campus,
that whoever receives the files ultimately is unable to open them.
Now it is true that in business we have what's called DLP,
or data loss protection.
You might have heard of Active Directory Rights Management Services.
There's other ways to protect proprietary file data.
EFS has been around for a long time,
and it uses a strong encryption protocol to boot.
It does require that your volumes protected by EFS are on an NTFS file
system because EFS is a fundamental feature of NTFS.
It relies upon digital certificates.
And oh, boy, digital certificates is another discussion unto itself.
Wait for the demo,
and I'll speak a little bit more about the digital certificate issue.
Related to that is the question of the DRA, or the data recovery agent.
If you're using EFS in business, what happens if the user leaves the company,
and his or her user account is deleted,
and their workstation is wiped and reloaded?
Well,
if you're not carefully preserving the user's own digital
certificates that they use to encrypt their EFS files,
they can, and they have been, I've known people who have been burned this way,
are never able to successfully unlock those files again.
It's really strong encryption.
So in an Active Directory environment,
you absolutely want to make sure you have
administrators configured with DRA certificates,
and they can unlock any EFS-encrypted file.
And that's super-useful for recovery purposes.
This is best implemented in the enterprise.
Even small office/home office businesses generally,
unless they're doing like government contract stuff,
would have need for EFS, but it is related to security,
and it is related to data encryption, and it is built right into Windows 10, so I want to make sure you understand a bit about it.